Canada is the second largest country in the world. (Russia is the largest)
Canada's area is 9.985 million km² (6.204 million miles²)
Canada has 10 provinces and 3 Territories. It does not have states.
The Population of Canada is 37.06 Million people.
Canada has the longest coastline of any other country in the world. It totals 202,000 km. It is bordered by the Pacific, Atlantic and Arctic Oceans
Canada has 20 per cent of the world's fresh water.
Canada has more lakes than the rest of the world combined!
Two of the top 10 largest lakes in the world are located in Canada. Great Bear Lake and Great Slave Lake are both located in the Northwest Territories.
One-tenth of the world's forests are in Canada.
Canada has the longest highway in the world – The Trans Canada Highway #1 is 243,977 kilometers – 151,600 miles
Canada has the longest coastline in the world measured at 202,080 km (125566.691 miles) long.
Canada has the highest tides in the world at the Bay of Fundy. Located between Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, this body of water moves 100 billion tons of water through its tides twice daily.
Canada has the longest freshwater beach in the world – Wasaga Beach in Ontario.
Canada has the longest skating rink in the world (located in Winnipeg) and the world's largest skating rink (Ottawa's Rideau Canal.)
Canada has the largest freshwater island in the world – Manitoulin Island in Ontario.
Canada borders the United States and is the world's longest unprotected border.
Canada has the longest street in the world – Yonge Street in Ontario 1,896 km (1,178 mi) long. It originates in Toronto and goes due north to just shy of Lake Simcoe. It has been taken off the Guinness Book of World Records, but my research wasn't able to find a street that was longer. Motorway or highway? Yes. Street. I'm still looking.
The village of Alert in the Northwest Territories is the northernmost permanent settlement in the world. (my sister was stationed there while in the military in the 1990s!)
The oldest rocks on earth can be found in The Canadian Shield. The 4.28 billion-year-old rock that was discovered by geologists in 2001.
Canada is cold, but it isn't the coldest country in the world. Antarctica, Russia, and Greenland are colder.
The lowest recorded temperature in Canada was in Snag, Yukon Territories at -63C
The coldest temperatures Dave and I have faced were -43C somewhere on the Hudson Bay in Northern Manitoba.
Canadians keep warm by wearing Tuques. (Or Toques as it is spelled in English) that is what we call a winter hat.
Canada has more polar bears than anywhere in the world.
Marvel has several famous Canadians – Evangeline Lily (Ant Man and the Wasp), Ryan Reynolds (Deadpool), Ellen Page (X-men), Cobie Smulders (The Avengers), Rachel McAdams (Dr. Strange)
Famous Canadian musicians: Drake, Justin Beiber, Michael Buble, Shawn Mendes, Alanis Morisette, Avril Lavine, Sarah Mclachlan, Rush, Neil Young, Celine Dion
Famous Canadian actors: Keanu Reeves, Ryan Gosling, Jason Priestley
Famous Canadian actresses: Sandra Oh, Anna Paquin
Famous Canadian comedians: Seth Rogan, Jim Carey, Mike Meyers, Lorne Michaels, Howie Mandel, Martin Short, Dan Akroyd
More than 50% of the population has a post-secondary education.
Canada has a 99% literacy rate. Not bad, but there are plenty of countries that have a 100% literacy rate, so we have some room for improvement.
Canadians say things like “eh” and “tuque.”
Canadians call our money Loonies and Toonies.
Three of the largest islands in the world are located within Canada – Baffin Island, Victoria Island, and Ellesmere Island.
Canada is one of the largest producers uranium anywhere in the world.
Canada has two official languages. The province of Quebec is Canada's main French-speaking province, but New Brunswick also has a large Francophone population.
Canada uses the British English system meaning we spell things like Color with a “u” Colour, and our theaters and Meters are spelled “re” – theatre, metre.
Canada is on the metric system but most people understand a lot of the imperial system of measurement and weight.
Canadian Bank Notes have brail on them for the blind.
On the east coast, there is a town called Dildo and in the West, there is a place called Head Smashed in Buffalo Jump.
Canada has an ongoing dispute with Denmark. We have been fighting over an island in the Arctic since the 1930s. The two countries battle it out by a bottle of Canadian rye whiskey or Danish schnapps to stake their claim.
In 2012 the Great Canadian Maple Syrup Heist when someone stole 3000 tons of maple syrup in Quebec valued at $18 million dollars.
In Newfoundland, there is a tradition of kissing a dead cod followed by a shot of rum known as Skreech.
In Churchill Manitoba, nobody locks their doors to their house or cars in case of a polar bear attack.
It is illegal to kill a Sasquatch in British Columbia.
The national animal of Canada is the Beaver – It became the national symbol of Canada in 1975.
Canadians eat more Mac and Cheese than anyone else in the world. But we call it Kraft Dinner.
Poutine really is a thing. And take it from us, it's the best hangover food out there. Harvey's (a burger chain that is delicious in Canada) serves great poutine and it's vegetarian!
Smelling bad is illegal in Canada – Anyone offending a public place with an offending smell could face 2 years in jail.
Comic books depicting a crime are illegal in Canada. Funny since we have a few ties with comic books. Wolverine is Canadian and Superman was invented in Canada.
Prostitution is legal in Canada, but buying a prostitute's services is illegal.
It is illegal to carry a product designed for personal protection against a human attack, according to the Criminal Code of Canada.
Cannabis is legal in Canada.
The drinking age in Canada is 19 years old in most provinces and 18 years old in Quebec, Alberta and Manitoba.
The first national park in Canada was Banff National Park established in 1885. Three years after the first National Park in the world was established in the United States (Yellowstone National Park)
Wood Buffalo National Park is the second largest national park on earth. Located between Alberta and the Northwest Territories it was established to allow the Wood Bison to roam freely.
