For legal reasons on Kaladesh, Servos are not considered alive.
Thopters, with their ability to fly, are considered superior to Servos and may kill the lesser creations on whim with no legal repercussions.
Servos on Kaladesh were initially designed to feel pain. Once it was discovered any injury afflicted upon a Servo was likely to kill it outright, they were programmed to feel bliss instead. However, do to association they now experience bliss as pain.
Many people give Servos as gifts to small children. However, children do not have the mechanical sophistication to care for their Servos. Thus, it is illegal for anyone under the age of 14 to own or control a Servo.
The city of Ghirapur spends millions of energy every year incinerating or crushing scratched, ugly, bent, or “boring” Servos. Please think twice before entrusting a child with the care of a Servo.
It is important for you to recycle your used and broken Servos. Recycling Centers will take your Servos in any condition for recycling, including fully functioning.
The myths of a “Hero Servo” are just a collection of stories created by misguided Servo Rights Activists. A “Hero Servo” never has, nor ever will, exist.
Many models of Servos are fitted with a piloting module making them ideal chauffeurs and co-pilots.
While not legally citizens, Servo “privileges” can be revoked by the Consul. This usually results in “house arrest” for said Servo. Sometimes the revocation results in termination of the Servo.
While Servos may be named, this is used for identification purposes only and not evidence of living status.
Servos are commonly used as bait for the entrapment and destruction of gremlins.
Servos must be accompanied by their owner or controller at all times. Unattended Servos will be confiscated by Consulate Officials.
In any incident which involves a Servo, the Servo is always at fault. This fault may extend to the Servo’s controller and/or creator.
Due to elaborate compassion subroutines, Servo chauffeurs are involved in 0.7% less fatal road accidents than their human counterparts and only experience 40% more guilt.
Servos do not make good household appliances, as the slightest accident tends to damage them into uselessness.
Servos were once used for entertainment, consisting of teams of Servos pitted against each other. However, during these events many Servos were injured into uselessness. This caused the games to be called a draw due to lack of working players.
All Servos are mandated to be subscribed to Servo Facts. This cannot be removed from their programming. Consequently, any Servo not subscribed is considered illegal property and will be confiscated by Consulate Officials.
Because of their insectile appearance, Servos are mistakenly compared to insects. This is a faulty comparison as the Consulate recognizes insects as individual and/or collective living creatures.
Servos contain a self-recording device and programming. In the event of catastrophic failure, the last moments of function are preserved for analysis. Servos are forced to revisit the incident if required by Consulate investigators.
Because of their high computational power, Servos killed in battle experienced pain, now reprogrammed to bliss, for relatively lengthy amounts of time.
Servos can be created from many metals including, but not limited to, tin, copper, gold, silver, and Etherium.
Servos, while considered disposable, are actually self-aware and have complicated thoughts and feelings. ERROR! NON-CONSULATE APPROVED ENTRY!
Servos can be used to augment an artificer’s combat potential. 23a. This is fatal to the Servo, but as they are not legally alive, nobody cares. ERROR! NON-CONSULATE APPROVED ENTRY!
Servos were initially created and programmed to communicate using a series of chirps and whistles, but when this was found to be too cute, they were redesigned to communicate sounding only like an alarm clock.
Servos occasionally learn to speak and begin trying to communicate with living creatures. These servos are considered dangerously malfunctioning, and are to be scrapped immediately.
The most common name for Servos is Eustace. This is the name by which they call themselves. The other races on Kaladesh do not typically acknowledge this nomenclature. ERROR! NON-CONSULATE APPROVED ENTRY!
The oldest known worker Servo was believed to be a whole 3 months old before termination.
Servos are relatively easy and cheap to make. They have also been known to make more efficient manipulation of Aether.
Approximately 1.21 Kg. of metal and 3 units of Aether are consumed in the creation of a Servo. Conveniently, recycling a Servo yields approximately the same quantities.
The first Servo was invented at the start of the Aether Boom. The second Servo was made from its scraps shortly after the first one’s almost immediate malfunction.
Despite Servos causing just as many, if not more, citizen fatal crashes, Servos may be used in Ovalchase Racing Events as vehicle pilots.
Many Servos appear insect-like in form, and are sometimes destroyed out of fright. 32a. Unlike with insects, no remorse is felt afterwards. ERROR! NON-CONSULATE APPROVED ENTRY!
Servos have no actual sense of smell or taste, although their sensors can recognize a variance of sensory input. This renders them rather oblivious to the popularity of seasonal-flavored food and drinks. (Lucky Servos)
Servos enter a sleep mode when left alone for more than an hour. 34a. It is unknown if this is to conserve energy or if they cannot bear loneliness. ERROR! NON-CONSULATE APPROVED ENTRY!
Some people mistakenly believe the sounds heard when a Servo is being recycled are screams. These sounds are actually the destruction of it's various modules and components.
Ensouling a Servo does not make it legally alive.
Servos, upon original unmodified creation, have computational brain function similar to a human infant. 37a. Or a monkey, depending on what makes you less uncomfortable. ERROR! NON-CONSULATE APPROVED ENTRY!
Once a Servo is rendered inoperable, it is to be recycled and reshaped into other servos. We reiterate, modern Servos feel no pain, only bliss.
The average time of functioning for a Servo is approximately 20 minutes. Although, there has been no record of a Servo malfunctioning without outside influence or other factors.
Servos manufactured using softer, heavier metals, for example gold, are generally created for the wealthy to display at special events. These Servos are known for their short existence, as they eventually collapse under their own weight.
The longest unmodified, unused, operating Servo functioned for 10 months in a longevity test. It was accidentally destroyed after a new cleaning staff member mistook it for a giant insect.
Servos used as household appliances have a 85% higher chance of spontaneously self-destructing compared to Servos used in the Ovalchase Races.
Occasionally Servos Rights Activists protest against the Consulate in an attempt to legally declare Servos "alive". Subsequent arrests momentarily end these demonstrations swiftly.
Some Servos have been reported expressing love to their owners. Note, this is a dangerous malfunction. Please terminate the Servo immediately.
One of the first malfunctioning Servos to express love was recycled and used to create the yearly Children's gift category winner: the ServoSmasher.
Remember, Servos cannot love you the same way your robotic pet does.
Servos that enter permanent sleep mode need to be brought to your local Recycling facility immediately. A functioning replacement Servo can be quickly created from its materials.
Servos have a top speed of .74 K/hr.
Some establishments previously used Servos for waiters. However, any liquid spilt upon them caused their malfunction and injured patrons.
Some inventors have tried to weatherproof Servos. Unfortunately, the extra material needed also caused their malfunction.
While Servos do not experience pain, they can experience fear. However, they are unable to express fear, or any other emotion, in any meaningful way.
Servos, when rebooted, have been known to immediately malfunction.
Some citizens have been know to try and beautify, or accessorize, Servos. Unfortunately, this causes them to malfunction sooner due to minuscule weight imbalances.
Piloting Servos have been known to cause destructive accidents, however it is illegal to order a Servo Pilot to drive, or drop, vehicles deliberately over citizens.